1. Why we should use snowflake?
-> Scalability - It allows for inedpendent scaling of computer and storage resources,
   Performance -  Fast query execution  and efficient data processing
   user friendly, multiple cloud support , data sharing internally and externally
   security, 
   
2. Auto clustering - How it is beneficiar?
-> It wont create the cluster key automatically,it will reorganize the micro partition according to insert update operaition 
   and then store that data into micro partion automatically as per cluster key defined, if cluster key is not defined then it
   will store the data in the insertion form to Clustering simplifies the process of maintaining well-clustered tables, ensuring that data is optimally organized without manual intervention.
   
   
3. What are different options available for warehouse, how its different from each other, when to use which one? book 
-> Single and multi cluster - covered in book
4. How snowflake charges from warehouse usage?
-> Depends on size of ware, type of warehouse, on demand pricing , capacity based pricing

5. How transient table different than permenant table? will it affect the cost if yes why if no why ?
-> Permenant table have time travel + fail safe, but transient table only have time travel , because of this it will also affect cost as fail safe will have more cost and only time travel will have less cost 


6. How snowflake handle semi structure data?
-> mind 
7. Architecture explain? book 

8. How snowflake support data sharing in different accounts?
-> book 

9. Importance of global service layer?
-> supports data sharing across region , main metadata globally, centralized acceess control.



10. How snowflake handle cache , start from querying data ?
->  After runnig the query first Result cache will comes into  picture here it will store the result till 24 hour
	Then Metadata cache comes into picture it stores table structure, file structure, and location
	Then Warehouse cache layer  which holds the data till warehouse  is running and used when same data is accessed again.
	
11. How metadata cache works
	Metadata cache have information about tables file,staatistics, so whenever qe hit query it first check if its metadata
	available or not if yes then it will check it and load the data from micropartition
	
12. Concept of micro partitioning
13. What is cluster key? How it affect the data and table 
--> Book
14. After applying cluster key , how it will affect data storage?
->  It will store the data based on cluster key , normally if its not applied then it will store data by insertion order.

15. Is it advisable to create cluster key on datetime column? what will be solution on that ?
->  Yes it is at most of the time data is inserted on time based, datetime column makes low maintenance clustering key
	it makes searching operation fact. but if we are filtering it with multiple dimension column then its not advisable 
	it will affect cost but will give better performance.



16. Difference between function and stored procedure?
->  Function primarily used to return value, while procedure use for logic and control flow.
	  we can use function inside procedure but not viceversa
	Function cannot perform DML operations but procedures can 
	


17. Difference between snowpipe and snowstream?
18. Various steps to injection data from s3 to snowflake?
->  Book 

19. What are different parameter into copy into command , explain one use case?
->  Book 
20. What was source and target in your project?
21. Did you used python in stored procedure?
22. How will you redesign this pipeline in snowflake itself using best practice?
->  Snowpipe for real time data injestion. stream and task for changes tracking and automation
    Medallion architecture for monular pipeline, 
    secure views for data protection, log storing for error handling, cluster key for performance 

23. How will you implement error handling part in you pipeline?
->  we can use try catch while using procedures
24. Is it possible to create our own library in snowflake?
->  Yes, you can create one function in python , convert that file into zip, then import that into snoflake using snowsql
    with put command into stage then this will import in snowpark 

25. How to create stored procedure using python?
->  Normally how we use sql in python , that waye we can create stored procedure.

26. Stages in snowflake?
book 

27. How stage can implement data security in snowflake?
->  Give access control with Role Based Security.
    In internal stage snowflake automatically encript, and for external we can use third party services.
    When using external stage use ARN 

28. What are all things present in snowflake query profile?
29. How to implement role based access in snowflake?
Book 

30. Medallion Architecture in cloud computing?
->  Multi Hope architecture
    This devides the data into 3 layer-  Bronze, Silver and Gold
    Bronze means injesting data with its original fomr such as , json, csv,etc.
    Silver means clean , filter, join the data and store into table
    Gold means high quality aggregated data store into table for reporting
    
31. If you are receiving json data and suddenly schema got changed then how will snonwflake handle this 
->  We store json in the variant , so when we dealing with schema evolution nth will happen if it changes 
    because we normally extract only required fields from the json, so if any field changes or remove, it will simply return null in that field 
    
    
    
32. Is it possible to transform data into copy into command?
->  You cannot transform when you are using  COPY INTO table(loading) , but you can when COPY INTO any stage (unloading)


33. What is materialised view?
34. What is secure view?
->  Here data is only visible through view , not directly from base table 
    Logic and structure is hidden
    cannot be materialized
    
35. Why we should use stored procedures?
->  Encapsulation, workflow automation, Reusability, Performance, Error handling, security 
36. How you make your  changes in production , what is ci/cd pipeline, have you work, how we deploy it to production by which  tool
37. How much you will devide your work day to day with snowflake and power bi 
38. WHat is matrix, Pie chart, in power bi 
39. Have you worked with multitime zone data , how to convert that  in power bi 
40. bubble chart?
41. snowflake and star schema difference/
42. what did you learn in last 6 months
43. what do you like about py spark
